Version roadmap as of 6/25/24
    Alpha
        0.1 - initial build with fruits and coins
        0.2 - build I left off last year
        0.25 present
        0.3 - enemy AI/combat overhaul
        0.4 - stealth, sound (visual), and enemy idle activity
        0.5 - sound (full)
        0.6 - object overhaul (exploding barrels, locked doors, secret passageways, traps, chests, etc)
        0.7 - items and inventories (ammunition, weapon degradation/juggling, throwing+more)
        0.8 - player character overhaul (deaths, resting/healing, replacement?, roles, lvling, etc)
        0.9 - encounter generation overhaul (enemy placement & idle behavior/object placement)
        1.0 - dungeon generation overhaul (room placement, area placements & connections)

    Pre-Beta
        - bug testing
        - optimization
        - revisit some important questions
            - standalone download vs web hosted
            - font/tileset
            - saves, savescumming, run lengths
            - intended to be played multiple times or just once
            - open vs closed source
            - build an editor for making bespoke content
            - editor just for me vs editor as content

    Beta
        0.0 - planning
        0.1 - game beginning and end, minimal menu/saves*, tutorialization (maybe just ? screen)
        0.2 - enemy varieties/behaviors/special abilities & enemy factions - first pass (1-3 areas)
        0.3 - area furnishing and proc-gen work - first pass (1-3 areas)
        0.4 - player character overhaul
        0.5 - enemy content - second pass (another 1-3 areas)
        0.6 - area furnishing and proc-gen work - second pass (another 1-3 areas)
        0.7 - graphical overhaul (animations, blood, smoke, explosions, ui, lighting tweaks)
        0.8 - sound overhaul (parameter adjustments, bespoke sounds, spatial sound tweaking)
        0.9 - final content work (finishing area/enemy/object/item/player character additions/tweaks)
        1.0 - bug fixes, optimization, and final round of playtesting and adjustments

    Pre-Release
        - Where is it going?
        - Am I selling it?
        - How will I promote it?
        - Will I work more on this after release or move on to something else?

    Release
        - yippee

Known Bugs:
    overwatch attacks don't play sounds - fixed
    autodash remnant still there - fixed
    anmimation durations are fucked up - fixed 
    light sensitivity has a delay in its trigger because reaction checks occur before lighting updates - fixed (probably)
    sometimes enemies walk back and forth for no apparent reason? (It's because the plan turn function doesn't realize curtains fall)
    objects remain difficult terrain after destruction - fixed

Planned reworks and technical overhauls:
    Rework reactions
        Move all out of traits and conditions (AOO, overwatch, surprise) - Done
        Rework Spot. Actions should check LOS as opposed to updating visibletiles for enemies
    Rework pathing
        Write modified Astar algorithm to prefer Bresenham lines without exception
            Use an iterative method by which the start of the last Bresenham line-
            becomes the target of a recursive call of the same function from the origin
    
    Rework LOS
        Rework to satisfy the following criteria
            fast
            symmetric (IE if A is visible from B, then B is visible from A)
            predictable/reliable
        Vague idea of shadowcasting algorithm
            Cast ray directly upwards
            When you hit an opaque object, crawl along the surface until you get to the next opaque object
            Record the arc between the two raycast angles and designate them as in shadow
            Repeat iteratively until the entire 360 degree FOV is covered

        More concrete discription of algorithm:
            Find opaque squares
            for each opaque square, find the arc of FOV it takes up (in the form of two normal vectors describing start and end)
            after finding the arc of the shadow, record the Chebyshev distance to the opaque tile.
            the shadow cast will preclude any tile whose two vectors are entirely within the shadow arc-
            and whose Chebyshev distance is greater than the shadowcasting tile.

            The result of the inital LOS pass will just be a list of Chebyshev distances corresponding to arc lengths from 0 to 360
            All tile visibility can be derived from that.
    
    Rework turn handling and settimeouts:
        Part of this task is design:
            Should you move your characters in the same order every turn?
            Should you be able to choose the order?
            Should enemies move between your characters?
        The other part is technical:
            How can I make action delays consistent?
            How can I efficiently calculate things in the background?
    
    Related to settimeouts:
        rework framerate handling:
            framerate should be stable rather than variable
    
    Fix hunting algorithm so that the huntmap is generated as soon as you lose sight

    Fix animations so that animation duration actually works - Done

    Make enemy state checking internal to the enemy class via a stateupdate method

    Make actionnodes actually just use actions as the objects that get passed around.
        Planturn should just build an actionqueue,
        and it shouldn't have to use a separate class of objects to do it.
        You can always just add evaluative properties to the actions ala avdamageac10.

Playtest feedback:
    Playtest session summaries:
        Playtest session w/ Peter (Alpha 0.33, 7/3/24)
            Maybe switch weapons in the Aim attack screen
            Turn order indicator
            Hot key glossary
        Playtest session w/ Chris (Alpha 0.33, 7/10/24)
            Hotkey glossary
            Max HP
            Turn order indicator
            Memory tiles?
            Indicate the torchbearer visually
            Tileset option and/or wolfenstein cam
            Right-click details screen
            Switch weapons in Aim mode
            Corpses?

            Turn order questions!

            We like the stand ground
            We like the skulker
            We like the evocative vibe

            Nitpicks
                - Lore

            Chris' writeup:
                Make controls visible in-game
                Show max health (e.g. 6/10)
                Visible turn order
                Shared fog of war between all characters
                Area Of Effect attacks
                Allow weapon toggling while aiming attack
                A class with multiple attacks
                A class with A.O.E.
                Add a save/load system
                Loot system
                ADD SOME SICK LORE PLEASE
                Interesting that you have to keep the Deserter alive
                Friendly NPCs?
            

            Could change turn order to be able to choose when your party members go
                (this would mean enemies would probably still go all at once)
            Could change turn order to include enemy turns between player turns
        Playtest with Mike (Alpha 0.4 7/14/24):
            Zoom in and out
            Fix autodash
            Accentuate ranged animation (fix animations)
            Be able to overwatch from aim screen
            Make stunned icon different from surprised icon
            Make conditions visible again (right click screen/alt)
        Playtest with Peter (Alpha 0.4.3 7/25/24)
            Check Skulker's darkattack
            Fix objects staying difficult terrain after being destroyed
            Fix enemies not being stunned right away
            Aim attack screen needs to go away if you don't have an action
            Fix enemies sometimes walking back and forth for no apparent reason


    Playtest feedback changes checklist:
        Hotkey glossary - Done
        Weapon switch in aim mode - Done
        Overwatch from aim mode - Done
        Fix autodash remnant - Done
        Fix animations - Done
        Turn order indicator?
        Zoom in and out - Done
        Check Skulker's darkattack - Done
        Fix objects staying difficult terrain after being destroyed - Done
        Fix enemies not being stunned right away - Done
        Aim attack screen needs to go away if you don't have an action - Done
        Fix enemies sometimes walking back and forth for no apparent reason




